Pleurotus genus is one of most extensively studied white-rot fungi due to its exceptional ligninolytic properties. It is an edible mushroom and it also has several biological effects, as it contains important bioactive molecules. In basidiomycete fungi, lignocellulolytic enzymes are affected by many typical fermentation factors, such as medium composition, ratio of carbon to nitrogen, pH, temperature, air composition, etc. The survival and multiplication of mushrooms is related to a number of factors, which may act separately or have interactive effects among them. Out that understanding challenges in handling Pleurotus species mushroom requires a fundamental understanding of their physical, chemical, biological and enzymatic properties. This review presents a practical checklist of available intrinsic and extrinsic factors, providing useful synthetic information that may help different users. An in-depth understanding of the technical features is needed for an appropriate and efficient production of Pleurotus spp.

Keywords: White-rot fungi, Intrinsic and extrinsic factors, Biological efficiency, Oyster mushroom
Substrates also can be saturated in water for 24 h, pasteurized for 2 h, drained from excess of water, mixed as their combination and cooled for ready to inoculated (Owaid et al., 2015). Houdeau et al. (1991) considered that the immersion of substrate in water can have different consequences according to the type of raw material. They pointed out that there is a “nutrient washing” effect that can be negative when old raw material is used, but useful in new raw material because there is a decrease in soluble sugars that can prevent the development of antagonistic microorganisms. Mejía and Albertó (2013) related that the hot water immersion treatment of substrate reduces yields in at least 20% when compared to other straw treatments, such as steam, chemical or untreated wheat straw. Compounds which are hydro-soluble are lost during wheat straw immersion in hot water. The loss of these nutrients would be the cause of yield decrease. Although this method is inexpensive and easy to implement, crop reduction is very important, causing significant loss, especially when the majority of Pleurotus farmers in Latin America, India or Africa use this methodology to treat the substrate. Additionally, another important factor to take into account is that this method uses a high amount of water, which could be a negative factor due to scarcity of this resource in some areas.
