Abstract
This paper presents the ECCO v4 non-linear inverse modeling framework and its base-
line solution for the evolving ocean state over the period 1992–2011. Both components
are publicly available and highly integrated with the MITgcm. They are both subjected
5 to regular, automated regression tests. The modeling framework includes sets of global
conformal grids, a global model setup, implementations of model-data constraints and
adjustable control parameters, an interface to algorithmic differentiation, as well as
a grid-independent, fully capable Matlab toolbox. The reference ECCO v4 solution is
a dynamically consistent ocean state estimate (ECCO-Production, release 1) without
10 un-identified sources of heat and buoyancy, which any interested user will be able to
reproduce accurately. The solution is an acceptable fit to most data and has been
found physically plausible in many respects, as documented here and in related pub-
lications. Users are being provided with capabilities to assess model-data misfits for
themselves. The synergy between modeling and data synthesis is asserted through
15 the joint presentation of the modeling framework and the state estimate. In particular,
the inverse estimate of parameterized physics was instrumental in improving the fit to
the observed hydrography, and becomes an integral part of the ocean model setup
available for general use. More generally, a first assessment of the relative importance
of external, parametric and structural model errors is presented. Parametric and ex-
20 ternal model uncertainties appear to be of comparable importance and dominate over
structural model uncertainty. The results generally underline the importance of includ-
ing turbulent transport parameters in the inverse problem.
1 Introduction
The history of inverse modeling in oceanography goes back at least four decades (see
25 Wunsch, 2006, for a general presentation). The canonical oceanographic inverse prob-
lem as implemented by Wunsch (1977) consisted in estimating the time mean abso
