to generate additional output that may be needed for extended data-model analyses.
Thus, the authors aim to provide ECCO v4 as a fully-integrated non-linear inverse
modeling framework including its baseline time-dependent solution that any interested
user can readily start from, analyze and/or accurately re-run.
5 The foundation of the ECCO v4 model setup is a set of global grids of the earth
surface (Sect. 2). The design, implementation and specification of the forward model
setup and of the estimation framework are presented in Sects. 3 and 4 respectively.
The baseline ECCO v4 solution (the ECCO-Production, release 1 state estimate) is
the subject of Sect. 5, which is followed by conclusions and perspectives (Sect. 6).
10 2 Global grids
The most visible grid improvement, as compared with earlier ECCO configurations, is
the extension of the gridded domain to the Arctic. This limitation of ECCO estimates
produced until 2008 was due to the use of a latitude–longitude grid (LL; left panel of
Fig. 1) that simply follows straight lines in spherical-polar projection, and requires an
15 exponentially decreasing time step when approaching the North pole.
The cubed-sphere grid (CS; center panel in Fig. 1) has been successfully used in
various MITgcm calculations (e.g., Menemenlis et al., 2005a; Marshall et al., 2007b)
resolving the Arctic. The CS grid is a conformal mapping of a sphere to a cube surface,
such that each face contains one sixth of the so gridded earth (Rančić et al., 1996;
20 Purser and Rančić, 1998). At its 8 vertices (cube corners), CS grid lines converge
exponentially as resolution increases, but more slowly than for LL at geographic poles.
However, a number of shortcomings of CS have been noted. First, loss of orthogonal-
ity near the cube corner is exacerbated when increasing horizontal resolution. Second,
some of the vertices have to be placed on ocean-covered areas, and have an ex-
25 ceedingly high resolution, requiring unnecessarily small time steps. Third, such grids
represent an obstacle for new users who were accustomed to latitude–longitude grids.
