maps for these highly uncertain coefficients become an integral part of the ECCO v4
model setup. In Sect. 5, the sensitivity to these parameters adjustments is evaluated,
and compared with the results in Table 3. The geography of Kgm, Kσ and Kd
, their
impact on stratification, and their observability by means of Argo are further assessed
5 in Forget (2015b).
3.4 Momentum discretization
Parameters of the momentum Eq. (1) currently used in ECCO v4 are provided in Ta-
ble 1. Lateral eddy viscosity is harmonic and dependent on grid spacing, with coef-
ficient given by 0.25 × µL2
/∆t, where µ = 2 × 10−2
(viscAhGrid in Table 1) is a non-
dimensional scaling number, L
2
10 is the spatially varying grid spacing squared (Fig. 2
shows L) and ∆t = 3600 s (deltaTmom in Table 1). The resulting viscosity varies from
≈ 103
to 1.6 × 104m
2
s
−1
, depending on location. The other dissipation contributions
used in ECCO v4 are harmonic vertical viscosity and quadratic bottom drag (with pa-
rameters in Table 1) plus contributions from GGL.
15 Previous ECCO configurations used the C-D scheme (Adcroft et al., 1999) that inter-
polates the Coriolis term from the Arakawa C grid to a D grid and back. This scheme
acts to reduce grid scale noise that is otherwise seen in the vertical velocity fields at all
time scales, and particularly in the deep ocean (Fig. 4). Large vertical velocities have
adverse effects on adjoint model stability, which ECCO originally resolved by means
20 of the C-D scheme. The C-D scheme does however have a large impact on the large
scale ocean circulation (Fig. 4) and hydrography (Table 3).
A comparable damping of the barotropic circulation could be obtained through a large
increase in viscosity (not shown). Also vertical velocity noise is most intense near the
ocean floor, which led us to the inference that adding viscosity more selectively near
25 topography could suffice to damp the vertical velocity noise (Fig. 4) and, along with
the use of vertical implicit advection, could stabilize the adjoint. Because the impact
of this approach on the circulation and hydrography is more muted than that of the
C-D scheme, the latter was abandoned in ECCO v4. Targeted viscosity increase near
