In Metro Manila, most of the water refilling stations are 
connected to the pipes of two concessionaires: Maynilad 
Water Company or Manila Water Company for their source 
of raw water while in other areas they opt to use private deep 
wells. The ‘potable water’ supplied by the providers is then 
further purified by utilizing a combination of water treatment 
equipment, such as sediment filters, carbon filters, water 
softeners, reverse osmosis membranes, ultra-violet lamps, 
and ozone generators. Typical water refilling stations can 
produce 3,000 to 12,000 litres of purified water per day.
In previous years, most of the people were bringing a 
container to a water refilling station to buy purified water. 
Nowadays, because of convenience on the part of the con-
sumers, purified water in 5-gallon (22.7 litres) containers 
are delivered by the station directly to the people’s home. 
Aqua Sure, a water refilling station in Metro Manila, can 
deliver 5,500 gallons (25,000 litres) a day to its 8,000 
household clients.
Features of a water refilling station
Structurally, water refilling station can be operated with a 
minimum area of at least 20-25 square metres. It comprises 
the following sections: refilling and selling room, enclosed 
water purification room, container washing and sanitizing 
room, storage room for empty and refilled containers, source 
water storage facility, toilet and an office. To operate the water 
store, about five employees are needed (Table 2).
 
The main processes in a water refilling station is dictated 
by raw water quality. The typical steps are filtration (several 
stages), softening, and disinfection. The machines that could 
be installed for such processes are the following:
• Multi-media sediment filter - removes sediments such 
as rust, sand and particles that are invisible to the naked 
eye; employs a total of 5 filters 
• Ion exchanger - replaces hard minerals with soft miner-
als 
• Activated carbon filter - removes all organic chemicals, 
herbicide, pesticide, offensive odor and bad taste 
• Reverse osmosis membrane - the heart of the system and 
the most expensive unit; removes inorganic minerals, 
bacteria and viruses while retaining its oxygen content. 
Since the filter size is very small at less than 0.05 mi-
crometre, the product water could have a total dissolved 
solids (TDS) of less than 10 ppm. The filtration process 
rejects about 50 percent of raw water volume.
• Post-carbon filter - improves the taste of water. 
• Ultraviolet lamp - ensures that the water is free from 
disease-causing microorganisms. 
• Ozone generator – inhibits the growth of bacteria in the 
product tank and prolongs the shelf life of water 
 The efficiency of water purification system in removing 
impurities is high. The 10 water quality parameters 
measured by Magtibay (2001) showed an average of 80 
percent efficiency. 
Institutions and policies
The agencies directly involved in the establishment and 
operation of water refilling stations are as follows:
• The Department of Health (DOH). DOH is the main 
agency responsible for protecting the health of the people. 
The Sanitation Code of the Philippines mandates DOH in 
protecting drinking water quality. Consequently, DOH 
issues implementing rules and regulations prescribing 
sanitary standards for water supply systems, including 
water refilling stations.
• The Center for Health Development (CHD) is the regional 
branch of DOH. Its main function is to provide techni-
cal assistance to local government units and to monitor 
DOH programme implementation which includes water 
quality and sanitation standards. For water refilling sta-
tions, CHD is mandated to issue initial and operational 
permits. 
• The Local Government Units (LGUs) are mandated by 
Presidential Decree (PD 856) to issue sanitary permit, 
sanitary clearance, health certificates, certificate of po-
tability, drinking water site clearance and closure order 
(if necessary) and to conduct sanitary inspection of 
WRS.
• The Water Quality Association of the Philippines Inc. 
(WQAP) is an organization of private firms who are 
engaged in the manufacture, sale, and distribution of 
water refilling station equipment and supplies, as well 
as water treatment and purification equipment and 
technology for household, institutional, commercial and 
industrial applications. The principal objective of the 
WQAP is to professionalize the water refilling business 
by conducting seminars, lectures, and symposia on water
